# Wavelet
Gesture recognition
Precise objectives of the project:
A hand-worn, watch-like device, that aims to make daily device interactions easier. Users perform gestures to wirelessly control supported devices around them. The system is real-time and relays instructions as soon as they’re detected, allowing for a quick and convenient way to operate appliances.
The system offers a ‘point and control’ mechanism, similar to remote controls used with TVs and smart home appliances. Users point their hand at the target device and perform a gesture. If done correctly, the target device responds to the given instruction. There is also a ‘pair and control’ mechanism for devices requiring more precise or complex input. It can be used to implement computer peripherals such as a mouse or keyboard.
The device comes in modules that can be purchased according to user requirements and budgets. Each module expands the base device’s functionality, allowing it to be used for a lot of potential applications.
6. Abstract:
In a world where gadgets and appliances are becoming smarter every day, a wearable remote can really come in handy. The proposed device is one such remote that translates hand gestures into commands. This allows users to operate any device they come across, both inside and outside their homes, wirelessly. Users simply point at the device with this wearable, or pair them using Bluetooth, to control it.
One major application of this system, is the way it assists physically disabled people to interact with appliances they otherwise couldn’t, such as lights, fans or even doors. Now, they can simply use gestures instead of reaching for switches and buttons. Hence, this type of interface offers uniform, convenient device interaction, to all types of people.
The wearable takes the form of a band, with various electronic components embedded within. It is worn on the hand, around the palm and just below the knuckles. It uses a rechargeable battery and automatically turns off when not in use, to save power. The gestures performed are read via motion sensors installed in the base product, and through other sensors contained in any add-ons attached. Flex sensors for example, can be used to read finger motions and resistive sensing pads,
to implement a hand worn keyboard. Other functionalities that can be added on include pulse sensors, voice communication, haptic feedback, XBee/WIFI connectivity, and so on. The modular nature of this device allows users to use what they want and feel comfortable with.
The vision behind this product revolves around the future world, where a majority of devices and appliances have embedded connectivity features. In such a world, wearing this device will give you the freedom to interact with machines, the same way we communicate with other people.
